as the corona virus outbreak continues
two very contrasting statistics from
different parts of the world for the
first time since covered 19 took hold in
China there have been no new domestic
cases but asleep the worst affected
country in Europe reported the highest
number of deaths from the disease in a
single day across any country it's a
grim record and it's been accompanied by
pleased by doctors for staff and
ventilators and a warning by the
worst-hit region Lombardi services
really are at breaking point and we have
some breaking news in the past hour or
so from Spain the death toll there has
soared by 209 to 767 fatalities that is
a 30 percent jump in 24 hours
Spain is currently on lockdown this was
the eerily quiet Street in Madrid today
as the virus continues to spread through
the country the number of cases jumping
there highlighting the job the country
has on its hands now to control the
virus over 17,000 people infected but
that is something that China seems to
have managed to do the latest official
bulletin confirming no new domestic
cases in China that is the first time
that has happened since Beijing started
keeping records there are 34 additional
infections and people arriving into the
country from abroad though it's all into
scenes like this one these are
incredible pictures from China
these are medics teams who were deployed
to Wuhan and they're being told they can
go home there are still cases under
treatment there were eight new deaths in
China in the last 24 hours that is a
huge drop though and the figures from
the peak of the infection it will be
yesterday there's no new confirmed case
and a no increased suspected case and no
remaining suspected cases we haven't
seen this for a while but our
correspondent Steve McDonald managed to
go outside of the Bureau in Beijing and
he says this is a highly symbolic day
for the country the first time we've had
zero homegrown infections in all of
China since this emergency began and as
if to sort of really nail this home
people in Wuhan the city
where this crisis began have finally
been allowed to go outdoors so you've
been cooped up in your house for six
weeks by a month and a half
imagine what today is like to be able to
go with your family to go outside and
have a bit of a stroll breathe some
fresh air in they're not allowed to go
that far from their homes and it's a
staggered approach so they're sort of
releasing people in building by building
sort of level by level however a big
change to being cooped up sitting around
in front of the television all day now
that doesn't mean that the problem is
all over here by a long shot we still
have these additional cases in the form
of people arriving from overseas 34 new
cases most of those are in Beijing in
fact and a lot of these are Chinese
people returning home from North America
and Europe believing that this is now
this is the safe place to be and for
that reason the Beijing government even
issued a sort of statement saying that
all these Chinese students studying
overseas unless you have a good reason
to you shouldn't come back so they're
already trying to tell people they don't
want them flooding back into the country
because everything's kind of under
control now and imagine there have been
cases of people with coronavirus
symptoms with boarded planes they've
taken drugs to suppress the conditions
so it seems like they're alright they
arrived in Beijing somebody gives them a
proper test and they have the
coronavirus now imagine that again you
could be infecting everybody on that
flight you're in a crowded Airport more
infections and that's why in big Chinese
cities there are still these very strict
quarantine rules Steve McDonald there in
Beijing and that real spirit of optimism
in China today it couldn't be more
different in Italy let's just update you
on what is happening there the country
recording 475 deaths from coronavirus in
just 24 hours that is the biggest daily
number recorded in any country including
China the city of Bergamo one of the
worst affected cities has run out of
space in its morgues and crematoriums
look at these coffins they are being
lined up this is actually in
a chapel because they had run out of
space and these pictures as well of
military vehicles they are taking these
coffins away to other cities and Italy
to be cremated because of the amount of
deaths there has been well let's hear
from a doctor working in Bergamo in
northern Italy the far north ago Lee is
a senior doctor at the Papa Giovanni
hospital and he has issued this plea for
help we are in full emergency with this
coronavirus pani Mia our Elf personnel
nurses and physicians are working around
the clock
countless hour to fight this incredible
situation we do not know how long this
Panda Mia will last I have two messages
the first one is for the general
population please stay at home the
second message is for whoever wants to
help us we are in desperate need of both
nurses and physicians together with
ventilators and dis positives for
protection so a real plea for help we
are hearing the medical services and
northern Italy they are completely on
their knees all of those health workers
there so let's bring you more with the
BBC's SEMA kotecha who joins us now from
Rome and we all recognize that science
seamless and Peter's behind you but I
don't think I've ever seen it like that
on a beautiful day no one is there give
us a sense of the atmosphere in Rome at
the moment oh yes it is an incredibly
bright day but the mood doesn't
correlate to the weather as you say
that's in Peter's Square over there
that's where the Pope lives eerily quiet
it's been barricaded off and if we move
around here the road behind me leads to
the city center again eerily quiet and
at the end of the road there's some
soldiers guarding it so that people
can't get through a crucial day here for
Italy more than 3000 sorry just under
3000 people have died over the last 24
hours but when the figures come out
tonight at 6 p.m. local time
they do everyday eyes will be on them
because if a few hundred more died today
like they've been doing over the last
few days the Italian death toll will be
higher than the total death toll from
this virus in China so a big moment for
Italy an incredibly sad moment for this
country that is at the moment dealing
with this outbreak the North
particularly bad hospitals struggling to
cope they're running out of key
equipment as you heard from that doctor
they're ventilators and face masks are
desperately needed and the Prime
Minister has said that the stringent
measures that have been in place over
the last 10 days or so could be made
more strict to stop this outbreak from
spreading so people at the moment can
walk around if they've got a dog or want
to go to the shops to get some groceries
but there is a chance that even just
popping out for those few minutes could
be banned too so Italy on full alert and
like I said I can't emphasize enough how
the world and Italy will be watching
these figures to see where its places in
that awful death toll table sooner we
saw these really poignant pictures a
moment ago of military vehicles taking
coffins away from the north because they
simply can't deal with the amount of
bodies there how is the rest of the
country
preparing are they bracing themselves
for perhaps something similar happening
in other regions well some water ease in
the north are being used to store
coffins it's a incredibly sad
description there and I've been reading
about it today and it's really
heartbreaking in terms of the rest of
the country well as we know that most of
the deaths like for example that
happened overnight 300 or so of those
deaths were in the north so the big
chunk of them are happening up there
there is a real deep-rooted concern that
that spread could move from the north to
the south because in recent weeks tens
of thousands of people have been making
that journey from the north to the south
so there is concern that the hospitals
in the south and will pour a part of the
country are not going to be able to cope
I mean they don't have
enough equipment as it is and if an
outbreak were like like the one in the
north were to move down there well then
who knows how they will actually treat
people of all ages a lot of old people
catching this illness in the north
seventy percent of them and then the
oldest person to have got is ninety-five
the youngest 39 so as I say a real sense
of anxiety and frustration here ten days
on after the measures were first
implemented well they absolutely Oh
Seema thank you so much for joining us
from central Rome there in what a
contrast their beautiful blue skies
spring day and that stunning part of
Rome and heartbreak right across the
country as they deal with this pandemic
the health system there on its knees